Welcome to Workbook 3.1.
And this workbook get to create a new project from scratch with the following dependencies.
I already went ahead and did that, including the dev tools, web time leaf and validation dependencies.
So now we can just jump straight into task one, which is to create a controller class with two handler
methods.
I'll come back to this task, by the way, I called my application Java gram.
You can call it whatever you want.
Then I will go and give my controller a very generic name of workbook controller dot java.
And we will mark this as a controller class that can handle web requests.
OC.
First thing we ought to do is create two handler methods.
One will respond on get requests made on an empty path.
The other will respond to get requests made on the path result.
Simple enough, we will map all requests made on an empty path to the following handler method.
Public string.
Get form.
And what this will do is return a leaf template called Sign Up.
And then we will map all the requests made on slash result.
To a handler method called.
Get results.
But that will do as return a file leaf template called results.
Okay.
And that was pretty easy.
We've done this a million times in the past.
Task number two is it's telling us inside of our starter folder there is a font file as well as a stylesheet.
We need to grab it.
By the way, this is an error.
It says to field validation.
It should say three.
By the time you're watching this video, it should already be fixed anyways.
So I'll minimize the following.
Here we see our starter folder.
I already have a font folder created inside of static.
I'll drag the Billabong font into it.
And now I will drag the form stylesheet into the static folder, not the font folder.
Okay.
And now under the templates folder, create a sign up that HTML file and then create another family
template called results.
All right, we'll call this sign up.
HTML.
And we will call this a result.
Dot HTML and we'll give each one the HTML boilerplate configuration.
Okay.
We'll start with sign up.
What do we have to do?
Title it.
Sign up and link it to the stylesheet.
Okay, let's remove all of this junk.
We will leave the link.
We'll remove the following.
We will title it as sign up.
We're going to link this HTML document to a style sheet and we'll use a ref to specify the path because
we're going to be using a leaf link expression.
And what this will do is start at static and then from static the path is just form stylesheet, CSS
form style sheet, dot CSS.
Okay.
That's over with.
We don't need to write any scripts.
We can remove that, and that's all.
What about results?
Title it result and give it a header that says success.
Very, very simple.
Remove all this junk.
Remove all this noise as well.
I'll give this a title of result and the instructions set to give it a header that says success.
Which I'm assuming implies the form submission was successful.
Okay.
Now we're going to create a DIV and link it to the CSS container class.
And I'm assuming this div is where we're going to place our form as well as every other element that
needs to be aligned in a certain way.
So here we'll say div.
And our dev is going to be designed using the CSS class container.
It's going to be styled, I should say, and that's about it.
Add an H two header that displays java gram.
The CSS is already configured to use the billabong font here.
We can see that the java gram header has been aligned in a certain way, which most likely implies it's
inside of our div.
So here we'll say h to.
H two and it just says Java Gram.
And you can see the font was already configured.
It's referencing the Billabong font inside of our static folder.
So it's really important that you specify fonts, not font.
Sorry about that.
Okay.
And I'll learn the part.
What does it say to create?
Create a fonts folder.
All right.
I didn't follow the steps, and I almost fell into a trap.
So this references the path fonts slash billabong.
Make sure what you specify here reflects this path.
Otherwise, the font will not be recognized.
Okay.
I think we're ready to spin up a new terminal and run our application.
It seems I have two terminals running.
I'll close the first one and if you ever get that error, a local host or Port 88 is already being used.
Chances are you've got two terminals open.
One of them's already running your app on a certain port.
So close that other terminal and start with a clean spring boot to run.
All right, I'll go to local host state 80.
And this is beautiful.
Och.
And now task six is to create a form.
And you might be thinking, hey, this is something that should already be provided by a frontend developer
and I agree with you, but this might be a good chance for you to leverage the HTML cheat sheet.
So we'll go back and start creating our form using the form tag.
And this form is going to be making post requests.
Method equals post.
Och, I'll go back and what I'll do is I'm just going to copy all of these over to here so that I'm
not constantly switching back and forth.
First thing we got to do is create one, two, three, four inputs.
So I'll create four inputs.
And actually, let's just start by creating the first one.
The first one will be type equals text.
So it's going to be a text field with a placeholder that says first name.
Copy this.
Three more times.
This will say last name.
This will say username.
And this will say email.
Okay.
Then we need to add a paragraph element with a style.
Of bold.
So anything inside of this is going to be bold and we will display dates of birth.
And right under our paragraph element, we need to display a date.
So we'll say input type is equal to date.
And we don't need anything else.
Produce two line breaks using the following.
We can just put them here and then a submit button and input type equals submit.
Value equals submit.
This is the button that will make our post request and I think that's about it.
We can go ahead and refresh our page and we have a nice, beautiful form where people can sign up for
Java Gram.
Task seven is to create a pod class for user objects with the fields that match the data provided by
the form.
So here I'll create a class.
User Java.
The user has a first name.
Last name, username, email and date of birth.
String first name.
And I'll copy this over.
This will be a last name.
This will be username.
This will be email.
Dates.
Let's import the data class.
Date of birth.
All right.
Oh, yeah.
Don't forget to add your constructor.
Or maybe a constructor, as I should say.
The empty constructor is just as important.
And then we'll say the getters and setters.
Task eight is to bind the form to an empty user object and then bind each form element to a field in
the form backing object.
This is needed for form submission as we have seen in the model view controller section.
So here we can access the model from the handler methods list of parameters model model.
Then I can say model dot add attributes.
The attribute will be user.
And here we're just going to create a new user object that is starts off as empty.
And now right before we return the signup HTML template file, MIF has access to our model data.
So here we can say finally leaf object to bind this form to an object and we're going to use a variable
expression to grab the object from the model.
I believe it was Yusor.
Let me just make sure it is.
And now each form element can bind to a field in the form backing object.
So here we can say leaf field.
Is equal to a selection expression because each input or each form element is able to select a field
from the previously bound object.
So here we can select the first name field.
Here we can select the.
Last name field.
Username.
Email.
All right.
And then we're going to bind this form element to the date of birth field.
Date of birth.
We just copy it over just to be safe.
Okay.
Task nine tells us that the form must submit a post request to slash submit item, then meet to create
a handler method that intercepts this post request and redirects them to the results view.
So upon submitting the form, we can use the leaf attribute action to make a post request and the URL
we're going to make a post request to.
We can specify with a link expression.
The URL is context relative, so we can just say submit item.
And so what happens is upon form submission, when the user inputs their first name, their last name,
user name, email and date of birth, all that data is going to populate a field in the form backing
object.
And then that same data is going to be sent as part of a post request.
And now we need a handler method that intercepts this post request so we can map the incoming post request
using post mapping.
Such that all post requests made on the path submit item.
Will be handled by a handler method called handle submit.
And as we get the Post request, we're going to receive a fully populated user object.
Do we need to add that object to the model or anything?
Doesn't seem like it and never told us to create a data store so we can just redirect them to the results.
View return.
Redirect.
Result.
Okay.
I think we're ready to run our application.
Or I guess, test our application.
We'll just submit anything we'll say.
Arthur.
Pendragon.
King Arthur.
We'll say Arthur at Camelot dot com.
And we'll give them a date of birth.
I mean, this was 1500 years ago, but we'll just give him a random date of birth of January the seventh.
All right.
Press submit.
And we get an error and we've already encountered this era before.
The string value that comes back from the post request isn't consistent with the format of our date
field.
We've already even brake pointed this issue and the challenge section.
So if you're confused about this error, please make sure to go back to the Global Superstore challenge.
But ultimately all we got to do is.
Give this a format.
Such that its pattern matches the pattern that's given to us from the payload and the post request.
And that would be a year, year, year, year, month, day.
Okay.
Let's try this again.
Arthur Pendragon username King Arthur.
Arthur at Camelot.
Just pick a random date.
Press submit.
Beautiful.
All right.
And task number ten tells us using the standard annotations table from the cheat sheet, ensure that
first and last names are not blank with at least two characters.
And you'll remember that the at blank annotation is not the same thing as the not empty annotation.
Because if the user would just enter white space, this would be considered blank, but it wouldn't
be considered empty, so this annotation wouldn't be very effective for our purposes anyways.
Going back, names cannot be blank, username cannot be blank and must be at least seven characters.
Email must be valid and date should be in the past.
And so I hope the table inside of the cheat sheet was useful.
I'm just going to go ahead and rip through this.
This should be not blank.
The message we will give it is name.
Cannot be blank or will be more specific.
First name cannot be blank.
Here will say, oh, it must at least have a size of two.
So we'll say size men is equal to two.
Then we'll say message is equal to.
First name.
Is to short.
We will copy this over here.
And then just say last name cannot be blank.
The username.
Must have at least seven characters.
We'll say username is too short.
This should be last name.
A username cannot be blank.
Now some of you might be thinking, Hey, if it's at least seven characters, how can it be blank while
the characters they enter could just be a bunch of white space and we wouldn't want that.
As for the email, we can just use the special email annotation.
With message equal to.
Invalid email.
And the date they provide must be in the past.
No one can have a birthday.
That's in the future.
Date of birth must be in the past.
All right, let's put some space between each field so that it's more legible.
Her name cannot be blank.
First name is too short.
Last name.
User name.
Username.
Email.
Date of birth must be in the past.
I think now I'll be going to do is when the post request is initiated.
This handler method is going to execute and before its logic executes.
What it does is it creates a new user object, and as it creates this object and populates it with the
values from the post request payload we need to validate.
All of the fields that are being updated.
And what's going to happen is after spring boot validates this payload.
And what's going to happen is after spring boot validates our fields, the binding result will carry
the result of this validation.
Binding result.
Result.
It's going to keep a record of the object where the values came from, and it's going to keep a record
of the fields that were erroneous.
So here, right above each field, we can display a paragraph tag, and inside this paragraph tag we
can use thin leaf to access all of these errors.
So here we can use a selection expression.
And what that's going to do is select the field first name.
From the previously bound object.
And finally, if errors will display the errors that associated with that field and I will color this
red.
We'll say style is equal to color red.
And we'll just copy this across every other input.
And should I put this on top of the paragraph tag or on top of the field?
What did they do here on top of the field?
So this will display the errors associated with the first name.
This will display the areas associated with the last name.
Username.
Email.
Date of birth.
And I think we're good.
We specified constraints for each field.
Our valid annotation is going to use these constraints to validate each field and the user object.
And if one of these fields violate the constraint, binding result will carry the result of the validation.
And if there happened to be any errors while validating every field, if result has errors, then we're
going to return the form.
Or the sign up page, I should say.
And as we return the sign up page file, Leif is going to have access to all of the data from the binding
results, and it's going to grab the errors that are associated with each field.
If there are no errors, the element just won't display.
And if there happened to be errors associated with said field, it will display the error message in
red.
I think we're ready to test everything else.
I'll go to local host 8080 and I'll leave this blank, blank, blank, blank.
I'll enter a date in the future.
Um.
Not what I had in mind.
December 20, 22.
That's fine.
Submit that we get first name is too short.
Cannot be blank.
All of the errors work as expected.
We don't get any errors for the email.
Let's just type an invalid email.
Hi.
Beautiful.
That's it for Workbook 3.1.
The purpose of this workbook was just for you to practice using the standard annotations that are already
provided to you from Spring Boots and the next workbook you will practice cross field validation.
So you soon.